- [Instructor] The final section that we're going to talk about
with Spring 5.0 in testing,
is some of the new mock constructs
and some of the improvements that they have made
to the existing mock construct.
First thing we're going to talk about
is MockHttpServletRequest.
Now, there's some changes in the way
that you can actually use the servlet request mock.
You can now get your content as a byte array,
or as a string.
This access to raw content, the request body for instance,
really becomes a very powerful thing
when you're inspecting elements,
and I use it quite a bit with MockMvc,
and having this here from the servlet request,
makes itself useful for other tooling as well.
Again, this is a small change,
but it can be very useful if your testing
can consume it, so if you're using
the MockHttpServletRequest, I encourage you
to take a look at these two new options.
Now MockMvc, which is one of the frameworks
that I use quite a bit,
now has output, and I know that
that may not seem like a lot, but for me this is huge
and in fact I'm going to demo this here in a second,
and the reason this is so big is
when I'm poring through lots of Jenkins logs,
and I want to find out why my test failed,
actually seeing the output of the test is huge,
especially in those use cases of Jenkins files.
I keep bringing that up because I've used it
considerably since Spring 5.0 came out
because of the value of having that output.
So you get a print() and a log() support,
you can use either one, I usually just print it,
because when I'm printing it,
my log aggregator is going to pick it up anyway.
This visual information about your test is very powerful,
again in that CI/CD world, and I don't want to
underestimate how big of a deal this is
even though it's a very small addition,
to me this is one of the best things
that was added in Spring 5.0,
because it makes my life easier.
So let's take a look at how to do that.
So I'm going to go ahead and jump over here to our IDE,
and what I'd like you to do is to open up the test
that we created in the last video.
The normal row you're going to be looking at here
is the actual output of our test,
so let's run it as it exists today.
So we'll run our test, and again it's
the output that we're most interested in,
we'll allow Spring to start up and do its thing,
and our test runs,
and we get just a little bit of data
that's a test that self-ran, and then everything was good.
So not a whole lot here to give us much indication,
but the test passed, it's green, we're good to go, right?
Well, sometimes I like a little bit more information.
So what we're going to do,
is right before our Expect,
we're going to add a command and that command
that we are going to add,
is andDo, and we're simply going to tell it to print.
Now again, we could do logging if we chose to,
but in this case print will be sufficient.
Now let's run our test again.
And we'll see Spring doing it's thing as it starts up
and the context loads, the test context
is running for our test,
and there it is, so at the end here
when the test actually was running,
we now got a servlet request and let's take a look at this.
So the HTTP Method was POST,
which is what we would expect.
The URI was the context root slash presidents,
again what we would expect, no parameters were sent,
the content type is application json
with a charset of UTF-8, that's what we set
so that's what we would expect to see.
There's the json body of our actual request,
again, this information becomes very valuable,
if this was not a green test,
we would know exactly what data was sent to our servers,
and we could then test it manually
to determine what's breaking.
As you go back down through you can see
the method that was called on the handler,
you can see whether it was synchronous or asynchronous,
in this case it was a synchronous test,
you can look at all kinds of information
including the output as well.
So this information becomes almost invaluable
if you're troubleshooting issues on your test execution,
especially on those Jenkins boxes.
So dig into this, I encourage you if you're using MockMvc,
add print to every single one of your tests.
You can probably write a real quick script to do that,
and you will find value out of it immediately, however,
take note that all of this is going into your logs,
so if you do retain your logs for any period of time,
it may cost you money in the long run,
so take that into account that your logs
are going to get bigger.
It's a trade-off, as everything in computer science
but this one I think is very worth it.